### What is a database?
- A database is a structured way to store and access data.

### What is MongoDB?
- MongoDB is a NoSQL Database which do not have table and rows and data is stored in the form of documents.

- MongoDB database is a NoSQL Document database which means that it means it stores a collection of documents inside a document hence it's called a NoSQL Document database.

### Collection 
- an organized store of documents in MongoDB usually with common fields between documents. There can be many collections per database and many documents per collection.


### What is  a document?
- It is a way to organize and store data as a set of field- value pairs.
for e.g.: `{
	<field> : <value>
	"name" : "Pawel",
	"age": "20"
}
`
### What is a collection and database then?
- A collection will contain multiple documents similar to the above one and a database will contain multiple collections .

### Lecture Notes :
- Document - a way to organize and store data as a set of field-value pairs.

- Field - a unique identifier for a datapoint.

- Value - data related to a given identifier.

### What is a Cluster?
- A group of servers that stores your data.

### What is an Instance?
- A single machine locally or in  the cloud running a certain software in this case MongoDB database.

### What is a Replica Set?
- A few connected machines that store the same data (having a copy of the data) in order to prevent the loss of data if something happens.

*MongoDB stores data in BSON format which overcomes and the cons of JSON and increases its speed and flexibilty. BSON also supports dates and RAW Binary data which JSON don't.*

`MongoDB stores data in BSON, internally  and over the network.`
